# Model-guided Concurrent Data Assimilation for Calibrating Cardiac Ion-channel Kinetics
A GitHub repository for the research project of analyzing K^+^ current recordings in mouse-model cardiomyocytes. 

## Abstract
Potassium channels (K<sub>v</sub>) are responsible for repolarizing the action potential in cardiomyocytes. There is a variety of K<sub>v</sub> isoforms and corresponding currents (e.g., I<sub>Kto</sub>, I<sub>Kslow1</sub>, I<sub>Kslow2</sub>) that contribute to different phases of repolarization. Because only the sum of their activities can be measured in the form of currents (I<sub>Ksum</sub>), there is a need to decompose into individual K<sup>+</sup> currents and their characteristics. Most existing studies separate and make inference of K<sub>v</sub> activities via curve-fitting procedures, but there are limitations such that: 1) curve-fitting decomposition only relies on the shape of K<sup>+</sup> current traces, which does not discern the underlying kinetics and interactions; 2) I<sub>Ksum</sub> traces can only be fitted for one clamp voltage at each time, and estimated information is analyzed in a population-averaged way later. Here, we develop a novel concurrent data assimilation method that calibrates biophysics-based subject-specific computer models to decompose and delineate kinetics of K<sub>v</sub> isoforms with multiple voltage-clamp responses simultaneously. The proposed method is evaluated and validated with whole-cell I<sub>Ksum</sub> recordings from wild-type and chronically glycosylation-deficient cardiomyocytes. Experimental results show that the proposed method effectively handles multiple responses in the voltage-clamp protocol and describes the glycosylation-conferred perturbations observed experimentally to various K<sub>v</sub> isoforms. In addition, we develop a graphical-user-interface (GUI) application that provides an enabling tool to biomedical scientists. The proposed method and pertinent software are shown to have strong potential to study K<sub>v</sub> kinetics in various heart diseases.

## GUI App
We packaged the suggested method into a GUI application. Check `KvApp_distribution` folder and [demo video](https://youtu.be/Sj72TwyqdGI).
